Hand-in Policy:
Create a cpp file for each part of the assignment and save the screenshot while these parts are running.
Your assignment should consist of 3 cpp files and 3 screenshots.
Zip all files of the assignment. Your zip files should look like this
Ps7_studentnumber_name_surname.zip
1)
Write a program that accepts a C-string input from the user and reverses the contents of the
string. Your program should work by using two pointers. The “head” pointer should be set to
the address of the first character in the string, and the “tail” pointer should be set to the address
of the last character in the string (i.e., the character before the terminating null ). The program
should swap the characters referenced by these pointers, increment “head” to point to the next
character, decrement “tail” to point to the second-to-last character, and so on, until all characters
have been swapped and the entire string reversed.
2)
Create a class named Student that has three member variables:
name – A string that stores the name of the student
numClasses – An integer that tracks how many courses the student is currently enrolled in
classList – A dynamic array of strings used to store the names of the classes that the student is
enrolled in
Write appropriate constructor(s), mutator, and accessor functions for the class along with the
following:
• A function that inputs all values from the user, including the list of class names. This function
will have to support input for an arbitrary number of classes.
• A function that outputs the name and list of all courses.
• A function that resets the number of classes to 0 and the classList to an empty list.
• An overloaded assignment operator that correctly makes a new copy of the list of courses.
• A destructor that releases all memory that has been allocated.
Write a main function that tests all of your functions.
3)
Using dynamic arrays, implement a polynomial class with polynomial addition, subtraction,
and multiplication.
Discussion: A variable in a polynomial does nothing but act as a placeholder for the coefficients.
Hence, the only interesting thing about polynomials is the array of coefficients and the
corresponding exponent. Think about the polynomial
x*x*x + x + 1
